# something of a background
## 24th april 2019

Something different.

I've been pushing this idea back and forth in my head for some time now. Usually it comes to me in my lowest moments; "Jess, you've gotta do this! Just get it out! Now!", which probably isn't the best thing to open with, but y'know, transparency and all that. These little moments of despair have occasionally led to way too personal blog-type-things in the past, and I think I've finally learned to mediate those urges. I have different intentions with this. Rather than the fundamentally corny, narcissistic outpouring of pretty much anything else I've ever written online, I've settled on the idea that this is 1. a form of catharsis (as always) because I have no one else to talk to about it, and screaming into the void can be nice, 2. a method of accountability because I really am trying to work on the thing I'm going to be talking about, and it's important to keep myself motivated, and 3. something that I hope a random person with the same problem will come across and maybe even be helped by. I don't exactly know how search engines work the magic they do, but I'm sure with the right combination of keywords and a bit of perseverance, someone specific will find this and be able to relate to it. Maybe.

Let me start by saying that this isn't going to be just one post, but a series of posts with updates on my progress relating to The Issue. Reasons listed above, of course. This one will probably be the beefiest of them all though.

Anyway, onto the topic! The Big Issue!

For some of the things I'll be bringing up, a bit of a background is going to be contextually necessary, so I'll run through the relevant events in my life starting from - well - the very beginning.

I was born with (amongst other things. Womb life was apparently not good for me.) a condition called tinnitus, as well as a condition called hyperacusis. Most people know what tinnitus is, but in case you don't, it basically involves hearing a constant sound that doesn't exist outside of your physical body and is also not psychogenic. For many people this sound takes the form of a high-pitched ring or whine. While I do have a little bit of that, mine is more of a low-pitched humming pressure, sort of like what you'd hear in the lowest decks of a ship. Tinnitus is reactive to certain things. Muscle tension, jaw position, anxiety, blood pressure, alcohol, and ear canal inflammation can all contribute to it being markedly worse on some days, and barely noticeable on others. I'm actually not bothered by my tinnitus - for me it's not loud or distressing, and the only negative so far is the effect it has on my hearing. On days when the tinnitus is bad, I lose most of the bottom end in my hearing range. Everything sounds like it's being played through a small, cheap phone speaker. Not ideal! I manage it by taking a lot of Benadryl and by surrounding myself with mild sound (not music, and not rhythmic) for most of my waking hours. Luckily I currently live in a basement with a mysterious rumbling cupboard that only the landlord has access to, so I'm pretty much living the dream in terms of management for mild tinnitus goes.

My whole life has been a steady series of ear-related mishaps. Up until I was about 2 or 3 I was completely deaf in - I believe - my left ear (it could've been my right ear, I'm not sure. I'm just going off what my parents tell me.) although that hearing came back eventually. As a child I constantly had ear infection after ear infection. Many of my memories from primary school revolve around sore, stuffy ears, "I can't hear shit", etc etc, and a major concern for me, especially recently, is the prospect of going completely deaf someday. My mum and a lot of relatives on my mum's side of the family have this progressive hearing condition that usually starts in your twenties. My mum is almost completely deaf and hears through a cochlear implant. I honestly don't know the name of the condition; funnily enough it's not something I've ever wanted to ask about, but all evidence suggests that it's hereditary and given my already shitty ear history, I wouldn't be surprised if it hits me too. Lately I've found that I can't make out what people are saying when in group conversations at college and I'm too scared to go to an audiologist. Hmm. We'll see how that goes. Anyway:

The star of the show here is hyperacusis. This is what I'm here for. This is what I'm trying to turn around for good. Well, sort of. Hyperacusis is a collapsed tolerance to sound and is often comorbid with tinnitus. It's not a collapsed tolerance to sound as in "loud stuff hurts my ears" or "guhhh, the sound of clicking pens is SO annoying" (although that sound does really piss me off. I'm sure it does everyone.), it's just... ah... sound is unbearable! It's very hard to describe. On the rare occasion that I let someone know it's a problem for me, their immediate assumption is that it hurts. It doesn't hurt. Actually, there is one physically painful component to it, in that my threshold for what hurts my ears is significantly lower. For a normal person, sound will typically start to hurt your ears when it reaches a dangerous volume, but for me I can get stabbing pains sporadically at maybe 50% headphone volume. I thought everyone experienced this but it turns out, no. That part isn't a big deal anyway. So how do I describe it? Think of the worst, most unbearable sensation you could possibly experience, now multiply that by ten. I read somewhere that a certain type of snake has a similar problem during the timeframe prior to an earthquake. The vibrations are too much and they sometimes repeatedly smash their heads against a solid surface until they kill themselves. I'm not being hyperbolic, this is how anything above about 70dB feels to me. In primary school assemblies, if there was a performance or if they played something over the sound system, I'd get up and run as fast as I could out of the hall, and it usually ended in me sobbing under the staircase. My old classmates can testify to that, heh. After a while I was excused from those things but I missed out on a lot because of it, and it always made me feel like shit. No Christmas events (I was sent to tidy the library instead), about 50% of school trips were off the table, same with indoor P.E., and no prom. Wow, prom night was great. 16 - I wanted to go, but of course, couldn't. Locked myself in my room and just cried my eyes out for hours with my head on my keyboard. A lot of teenagers struggle with feelings of not being normal, but for me it was very much a reality - I wasn't normal, I couldn't do normal people things, I couldn't experience the world in a normal way. It's likely I never will, either.

Moderate to loud sound isn't the only problem. Every day is a face-off between the world and my ears. There was a point in my life where I couldn't even leave the house without extreme anxiety. My biggest difficulty as a young kid was car engines. I couldn't walk near roads at all - often my mum would have to pick me up and carry me kicking and screaming. These days I'm fine going outside but usually I have to either be wearing earplugs or listening to music. I can go outside and do stuff without any ear protection, however, but I'm very on edge and very, very nervous. I think I manage it well. When I meet up with online friends I don't wear ear protection, and I suppose I treat it as a kind of exposure therapy. Someone I met up with last year I shared a car with. I brought my earplugs *just in case* but promised myself not to use them unless I was about to make a fool of myself. I remember the anxiety I had prior to seeing them for the first time, not because of the whole meeting-someone-I'd-never-met-before thing, but because I knew I'd be getting in their car. Cars are a struggle. The engine, the sound of the tyres on the road, and - most of all - the radio. It's all unpredictable and none of those things I am in control of, and it's not like I can suddenly escape from it either. It turned out to be fine and I was very proud of myself for keeping it together, but it was still difficult.

This little issue of mine pretty much gets in the way of everything. It affects what jobs I can apply for, it affects how I interact with the whole world, and it especially affects my social life. Guess who has no real-life friends anymore? Whoa - it's me! I can't go to typical parties, I can't go to the cinema, I can't go to many shops, I can't go "out on the town", I can't go to conventions, I can't even go to general interest get-togethers because I don't know what unexpected sound surprises await me - and the list goes on. Earplugs help for lower noise levels, though unfortunately for moderate to severe hyperacusis, they don't make much of a difference for louder environments. When I'm done at community college I come home and seal myself in my room (I telework, currently). On my days off I go hiking by myself. Some weeks I don't even hear my own voice, maybe except to say "thank you" to the bus driver. I had a few friends in secondary school and when they send me stuff of their nights out, although I'm happy for them and their lives, it just makes me cry. Yikes. I'm at the point where the only avenue I have left for making social connections is joining the local board game group. No offence to people who play board games as their main hobby, but I've never had a good experience with that crowd and I'm extremely reluctant to dig my toes back into it again. I'd rather be by myself. As for dating? Might as well just declare myself a mentalcel and have it over with. Quite literally zero opportunity in that department anymore.

Overall I have a very complicated, emotional relationship with sound. People who know me are probably aware that music is my absolute favourite damn thing on this planet. It sounds corny but my life revolves around it, and has done for as long as I can remember. First time I ever cried at an album was when I was 3 years old. It continues to shape and boost and destroy my life in very different ways and all at the same time, and really, truly is the reason I like waking up in the morning. I told you it sounded corny. It's true, though. All this other stuff I've brought up... None of it matters compared to the barriers I face with music. It genuinely breaks my heart that the prospect of never seeing a proper live performance of an artist I love, ever, is very real, and it's also extremely difficult to accept that I'll never be able to play music of my own live or with other people. When I tell someone "I hope to see x artist live someday!" what I really mean is "I hope that I'll be in a position to see x artist someday!". I always keep my options open for whatever stupid reason. Deep down I know it's incredibly unlikely. I've had one taste of it so far and all it did was make me more depressed. The frontman of my favourite band did a series of acoustic living room shows, and knowing that it would probably be the only chance I'd get to see a musician I love live, I went to one. It was great. I had such a nice time. Because it was just an acoustic guitar I could handle it. I was on a high until I got back to Ontario, then I lost it. Isolated myself for days and just bawled my eyes out. It's been like that this week too. It comes in waves and I hit absolute rock bottom, to the point where I look at anyone on the street and feel a disgusting, seething resentment towards them, knowing that they probably get to experience sound like a normal person. You know, the usual silly case of "why me?". All through secondary school I wanted to go to university for audio and sound design. It's my dream career path, and at the time almost everything I did outside of school related to it in some way or another. There was a day where I just had to accept that it wasn't going to happen. I wasn't going to “get better” in time, and probably never would. I - and I hate to say this - just wanted to be dead. What was the point?

Well, no more! There's no "cure" for hyperacusis but I'm goddamn fed up of this and I'm going to beat its ass with a baseball bat. It won't go away but I'm determined to force it into some sort of submission. Finally we get to the point of this post (sorry if you read all of that). I've got a little action plan mapped out, and I'm going to be documenting every step of that. It's very vain of me to assume anyone cares about my sob story, however that's not what this is about. This is about proving myself, soothing myself, and err... I've run out of rhymes, but I want to make these changes happen and I want to show other people that it can be done. Sounds too ambitious, right? You're probably correct. I'm still going to try it, though, and it never hurts for other people to understand. Most of all, this is for other people with hyperacusis, because one thing I've found is that there's very little online that is positive and uplifting about the condition. That's not to say I'm gonna be pulling any "UwU the only disability is a bad attitude!!" bullshit, but I want it to be a nice alternative to what we've currently got, i.e. endless posts on hyperacusis "support" forums about people wanting to pour bleach down their ear canals or sonically castrate themselves. No more moping for me! Nope, not at all. Or at least, less moping.

And here, the ultimate goal: go to a live music show. A proper one, with a band, a PA - everything. I am going to do it. I promise. I’m not going to stop until I do, even if it takes years.
