# So-so

I suppose I’m long overdue an update. Unfortunately it’s not the update I was hoping to write. To be completely honest, these past two months have been hell. No other way to put it.

Since my last update I’ve been undertaking a temporary job as an overnight maintenance worker. The position is physically exhausting and mentally numbing, and the daily overtime in combination with my part-time job has meant that I’ve been working anywhere between 55 and 75 hours a week. This is something I’ve been sure to keep in mind when reflecting on my recent experiences as it’s undeniably going to be a source of ulterior mental strain on top of an already-volatile-me. I had to quit prematurely (with only 2 weeks left anyway) because of an unrelated injury.

I did not like the job. I did not like the hours, the night shift, or the work I had to do. Fine. Cool. All normal stuff that everyone deals with at some point. However, albeit for admittedly understandable safety reasons, I wasn’t allowed to wear earplugs or listen to music while working. Half of the shift I spent outside dragging palettes around and operating a compactor, which was mostly fine. The other half was spent inside the building, and that’s when it could get fucking LOUD. There’s no point going into detail about every single little thing that bothered me, but I won’t lie, it was difficult, and I absolutely lost my shit locked in the janitor’s closet multiple times. At least I had that space to “let it all out”, yeah? If I didn’t have the next 6 months of rent to worry about and a few weeks of not getting any income at all in order to visit old friends and family I woulda’ quit far sooner, trust me. 

During this period I got almost record-hitting low, although I wouldn’t say it was directly linked to the job, the work was just extra aggravation on top. One thing I’ve consistently had a problem with is not becoming catastrophic about my prospects for the future. For now I’m happily occupied with getting fitter, learning my instruments, doing what I can to get a decent-ish career, reading what needs to be read, immigrating permanently, etc etc, but when my mind drifts to my late 20s / early 30s, it draws a complete blank. Will my ears get better? I don’t know. Really, everything relies on me seeing some sort of improvement, and I *just don’t know* if that will happen. Friendships, relationships, joint musical projects, settling down, and a chance to function normally in society are all things that I of course want, but don’t expect. If things continue at their current rate I will be one very lost 31 year old. I try not to think about it, although I did get myself into a hopeless and dangerous state of mind. Mostly I just started getting exasperated because my hours meant I had no time to work on trying to make me more comfortable around sound. When I see no improvement I get a bit drunk on emotionally torturing myself. Got to stop that!

Anyway, it’s not all bad, and I’m pretty sure in my initial post I declared that this would be a space to document any improvement and hold me accountable to making said improvement happen. Well, I’m back in my home country for a few weeks now and I’ve been playing my tunes as loud as I possibly can when I’m driving with my dad. My decibel metre says that at times it peaks at around 95dB. Man, when I saw that number I could’ve cried with happiness! It’s an incredibly uncomfortable experience, but it also doesn’t want to make me die, I’m not wearing earplugs, and I even occasionally enjoy the feeling of the slight thumping in my chest. Sure I have to turn the volume up gradually but this time two years ago a scenario like that would have been inconceivable. I hope this sets an upward trend for the years to come.

I’m also practicing hard to perform at the local pub I used to frequent, for their open mic night. I used to go to this open mic night every week just to watch (and drink) but I could never sit in the main seating section because the sound from the PA would beeline right to my ears. This time around if I pussy out it won’t be because of the volume, but because of stage fright. We’ll see what happens. The fact that I’m even able to consider this makes me very happy either way, and this pub is one of the few “night out” sorta spaces where I know it won’t be prohibitively noisy (and is easy to escape from if it is). Oh, and this week I’m taking a trip with some old school friends so I’m sure that’ll provide unique sound challenges of its own, although I’m more jittery about the £100 (fuck!) I had to part with to make it happen. I guess the next update will have some juicier developments!
