# good stuff, bad stuff
## 12th september 2019

Cool update time! Some good things, some bad things.
Lemme say, first off, that today has been not-great and that’s actually what prompted / reminded me to write this. I’m a woman of fantastic and incredibly healthy coping mechanisms and I just *love* bottling everything up until I reach my fairly consistent breaking point every 2 months or so. I’m guessing today was that day. When I get home I usually give myself half an hour to watch some cool live performances on YouTube. Helps me unwind, wake up, etc. You know how it is. Not sure entirely how or when it happened, but from maybe 5:30pm until just about 10 minutes ago (it’s nearly 10pm) I sat motionless at my desk staring at the paused Sebadoh set on my screen, randomly breaking down into pathetic little segments of crying, coming round, checking Discord, crying again, and so on and so on. Then the typical big finish of listening to *In Streams* with my forehead pressed against the table and my body slumped off the edge of my chair. Sometimes, again, crying. And not in the good “ah, I sure love the dulcet, soothing tones of Centaur” way. I’ve been getting a little concerned about my mental health lately but I read that depressed people rarely cry because they experience emotional numbing. Which is reassuring, as I’ve always been convinced that I’m not depressed, instead just “situationally miserable”. 
Other than some especially and unusually bad developments in my personal life (which is personal and private and personal and irrelevant!) and the loneliness, there have been a couple of discouraging updates with regards to my ears in general, which I’m sure have stretched my coping resources thin. Downdates. That’s what they are. Hate ‘em.
It’s confirmed – I’m going deaf. I finally went to the audiologist after avoiding going back for about three years. Moderate loss in my left ear, mild in my right. Lower mid-range. Mixed conductive and sensorineural. The rest of the info involves useless specifics. As of yet I have no idea if it’s temporary or permanent. I’ve got some wax to budge with olive oil which may help to alleviate the conductive loss, but there’s no guarantee. I’m hoping that because my worse ear is the same one that gained its hearing back when I was younger, the deafness is only temporary. But really, I understand that what’s happening is following the exact same pattern as my mum and grandma’s hearing loss, both of whom eventually ended up with very little hearing, and the past couple of months have been spent trying to come to terms with that. Will I really, *actually* go deaf? Really? Would that happen to *me*? Would the “powers that be” really strip me of the last thing that brings me any sort of joy? It’s hard to see a future for myself. Maybe I will end it in my thirties and, yeah, that is something I’ve seriously been thinking about for a while (years). I bet that sounds dramatic but I’m sorry, this is more major than even losing a limb would be to me. My hearing will be checked again in a couple of months and then we’ll take it from there (there are a few more details but that would involve dipping into other health stuff, which I’m not interested in doing).
Other than that, my tinnitus has also gotten noticeably worse. I’ve noticed these changes in two situations – one, when I go to bed for the night and the rushing noise feels as though it’s crushing the sides of my head, and two, when I walk out of the living room, where the air conditioner is located, and hear a huge spike once I’m away from that sound. Looks like the environmental sound I’m losing is just gonna be replaced by some bullshit sound my head is making up. That’s taking the piss! I’m pissed off!
Now that’s out of the way, onto the progress I’ve made! This ain’t called the *Progress Report* for nuthin’! I’ll bullet point because I’m lazy and tired.

•	I went to New Brunswick on the train by myself last month with no real plan in mind. I don’t mind doing stupid stuff like that once or twice a year because number one is the only person that I’m friends with so I never spend money on social anything. I’ve only ever been to small train stations (and the interiors of trains themselves are actually a tolerable noise level / frequency range for me), but baby, on this trip I connected in the behemoth stations of both Toronto and Montreal. First off, I purposely *did not* bring my earplugs. This was a week of training for me and the only things going in my ears were the sweet sounds of a good album, and rain. Montreal was insanely loud and noisy. When I stepped off the carriage and onto the platform I honest to God felt like I was about to pass about and I couldn’t cover my ears because I was carrying my bag in one hand and my pass in the other. I did not freak out. I did not run away. I also flushed the train toilet multiple times without covering my ears, which, as silly as it sounds, is something I have never been able to do before. Anyway, that trip ended up being one of the best weeks of my entire life for a bunch of different reasons.
•	Last week my roommate wanted to get something to eat while out of the house. She took me to this bar / restaurant place that just so happened to be holding its open mic night when she showed up. “Well shit”, I’m thinking as we step through the door to the booming sound of the PA. I had not told her about “my problem” at this point because life is just easier when people think you’re normal and functioning, and I certainly wasn’t about to change that. Seated at the table I began to sense that very distant and disconnected feeling that I get when around loud sound. Miraculously my panic was under control but whenever I’m in this kind of environment, the only way I can describe it is that I don’t feel real. It gets real foggy real fast. I become confused and I can’t parse what people are saying to me no matter how clearly I can hear the words. And all I could do was sit through it, reminding myself that it doesn’t actually feel too bad and that I can’t feel the thumping in my chest, which means it’s weak enough for me to put up with if I really try. “Breathe. I’m sat down. I can’t fall over if I’m sat down”. Funnily enough after about 20 minutes I started to realise that my normal level of consciousness was returning and that I wasn’t constantly glancing at the speakers in fear. I was getting back into the swing of conversation with my roommate. By the end of the meal, I might as well have been sat in my room goofing around in voice chat. This one was a huge triumph and let me tell ya – I’m really, really happy to be writing that in this update.
•	Remember in the last thing I wrote I talked about doing an open mic? Well, I did it! And I performed okay-ish too! The loudness and stage-fright combined to make me look like a naked, wet dog in negative 50 weather (with wind chill) but, again, I kept my cool. And again again – by the end of my performance the volume was no longer as bothersome. I’ve wanted to do this for many years and now that I can say I have. Hell yeah. It kicks ass.

I think that wraps things up here. I’m glad myself to see that progress has indeed been made, especially compared to the last update, although all the other ear shit stinks. The real hard thing to kick is the social isolation; every day it becomes clearer to me that I exist in a society that I do not have the equipment to function in (we live in a society, amirite!?!?), and I think there *will* come a time where I can’t exist in it anymore, and that’s just… whatever. It is what it is. I don’t like to think about it but having to spend every single second in constant fear of my surroundings is exhausting. Where even something as simple as turning on the shower causes my heart to race. Deafness does not make hyperacusis go away, in fact it often gets worse. Right now I’m hinging on the hope for things getting better. The possibility of “things getting better” seems to be getting increasingly slim. I don’t know. I guess the next update should include some progress in terms of the coping side of things. That stuff is important too. Sorry for moping, I don’t want this to be for sympathy or anything like that, it’s just writing it down *is nice* and posting it on my Github site really makes me commit (cool dad joke).
